I am Nikolai Amosov.
Born in 1913 in Olkhovo, Russia.
I am a Soviet and Ukrainian doctor of Russian
origin, heart surgeon, inventor, best-selling
author, and exercise enthusiast, known for
my inventions of several surgical procedures
for treating heart defects.
I completed my studies at the Cherepovets
College of Mechanics, the Arkhangelsk Medical
Institute, and, by correspondence, the Soviet
Industrial Institute.
After the second world war, I moved to Kyiv
and in 1965 wrote my book “The Thoughts
and the Heart”, selling millions of copies.
I was the recipient of multiple awards.
I am a corresponding member of the Academy
of Medical Sciences of the USSR and Ukraine.
From 1952 to 1983, I was the director of the
thoracic and heart surgery clinic at the Kyiv
Scientific Research Institute for Tubercular
Heart and Artery Surgery, becoming the institute’s
assistant director in 1968 and serving as
director from 1983 to 1988.
In 1955 I founded the first heart surgery
clinic in Ukraine, which later became the
Kyiv Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery.
I was also a founder of the Ukrainian school
of biological, medical, and psychological
cybernetics.
I am the author of more than 400 scholarly
works and 19 monographs, which include an
outline of thoracic surgery, a guide to surgery
for heart defects, and a study of algorithms
of the mind.
I was the recipient of multiple orders including
the Hero of Socialist Labor title, two Orders
of Lenin, the Order of the Patriotic War,
two Orders of the Red Star, and the Lenin
Prize.
In 2008 I was recognized as second after Yaroslav
I the Wise among the Great Ukrainians by a
public poll conducted for the TV show named
The Greatest Ukrainians.
By the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of
Ukraine, the Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery
of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine
was named after me.
Streets in Kyiv were named after me and the
National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine established
the Nikolai Amosov Prize which is awarded
for significant scientific works.
The human body is a marvelous masterpiece.
Please take care of it.